WebSearchEngine
===============

This repository contains homework solutions for the Web Search Engines class taught at New York University during Fall 2014 by Professors Cong Yu and Fernando Diaz.

The homeworks lead to building a simple web search engine.

#Group 14

##RUNNING THE SEARCH ENGINE

The followings assume that you are currently in the "src" folder. Please adjust the path in the source codes respectively (in the Evaluator, Ranker, and QueryHandler files) if you are not executing within the "src" folder.

In order to run the SearchEngine, you can issue:
java edu.nyu.cs.cs2580.SearchEngine 25814 ../data/corpus.tsv  

You can then go to the browser and enter:
http://localhost:25814/search?query%3Dgoogle%26ranker%3Dphrase%26format%3Dhtml

Please note that the url must be encoded like above


##FILES GENERATION

To enable the Ranker and Evaluator to produce the output files, which will be saved in the "results" directory, change the boolean "saveOutput" in both classes to true. The default setting is false, which does not generate output files. If you prefer different output path, please change them in both classes corressponding.

Each output file from the Ranker corresponds to each ranking method and contains the rankings for all queries in the "queries.tsv" file.

Each output file from the Evalutor corresponds to each ranking method and contains the evaluation of all metrics, separated by a tab, for all queries in the "queries.tsv" file.

Not that the output files are generated by the server and is independent of calls from the clients, which do not generate any files.


##RUNNING THE EVALUATOR

The input into the Evaluator is via standard input, corresponding to the format of the output of the ranker: QUERY<TAB>DOCUMENTID-1<TAB>TITLE<TAB>SCORE

It is assumed that the input fed into the Evaluator is more than or equal to 10 lines. This is because some metrics, e.g, precision at 10, require such a minimum amount line of input.

It is also assumed that all lines of input has the same query (only considering one query per call and that the evaluator is agnostic of the ranking method).


##LINEAR MODEL

Below are the beta parameters for the construction of the simple linear model,

 betaCos = 1.0/0.8
 betaQL = 1.0/9.0
 betaPhrase = 1.0/300.0
 betaNumviews = 1.0/20000.0


##CLICK LOGGING

Click logging is also implemented. The log file is saved in the "results" folder. In implementing this, a cookie on the browser with a session id is set, which is read from every request. The session is set to expire in 20 minutes.

The result of the click tracking links is an HTTP redirect to the search results page.

Note that this works well in Firefox and Chrome, but not in Safari because of a known bug.